Problem statement: 
Identify the factors which affecct the sales at retailer level and product category level. 

Initial State:
The FMCG company is not aware of the factors which affect the sales of its retailers.

Desired Final State:
This will be leveraged by the product category team to help the retailers increase their sales. Thus getting a better image, bolstering the long term relationship with the retailers.

Questions:
1) What are the internal and external factors which contribute to sales?
2) What is the metric to evaluate the factors affecting the sales?

Approach:
Followed the 6 stage framework of CRISP Data Mining process

Business understanding:
1) The sales vary from retailer to retailer by a big difference. Also this is varied across product categories inside each retailer
2) It gets easy for the FMCG company to pitch strategies to improve the retailer sales along with strategies to increase their product category sales

Data understanding
1) The data is a longitudinal. It has the UPC, month, year, Producct Group, Product Category, REtailer, Discount from different kind of promotions
2) The dataset consists of ~1,000,000 instances ranging across multiple years. There are many redundant records for this analysis which are captured for relative performance metric calculations

Data Preperation:
1) Filtered out the redundant data for the analysis in focus. Aggregated the data at a year, month, week, retailer, product category level
2) Added external factors like Fortune list randing of the retailer, number of stores the retialer has, the number of employees the retailer has

Modelling:
1) I Have used Linear Regression modelling for predictions
2) Have created a R Shiny application to predict the targets at various levels of business

Evaluation:
Have used the p-value, R square value and adjusted R square values which were obtained during the models building process. As a standard all the drivers, with p values lesser than 0.05, are considered significant.

Validity of assumptions:
1) The relationship between the dependant and the independant variables should be linear in nature
2) The errors obtained from the model should be normally distributed

Deployment (Next Steps):
1) The R shiny application can be used by deploying the same in the FMCG company. Multiple users can access if its on a cloud sharing platform like AWS or R server
2) It can also be automated so that on a monthly basis when the data changes, the predictions can be produced and used. We can connect the model to the platform from where the data is stored
